Hi everyone. In this lesson,
we'll use the
optimization techniques
we've developed in
the previous lessons,
to derive a full-fledged
path planner
known as the conformal
lattice planner.
By the end of this video,
you should be able to implement
a conformal lattice planner,
to solve our path
planning problem.
You should understand how to
sample points along the road,
and how to plan paths
to each point using
the optimization formulation
we developed in lesson two.
You should also be able to
determine if paths
are collision free,
and select the path
that best tracks
the road we need to
follow. Let's get started.
As an introduction, let's go over
the high level objective and
structure of the conformal
lattice planner.
As with all path planners,
the goal is to plan
a feasible collision-free path
from the autonomous cars
current position,
to a given goal state.
The conformal lattice planner
exploits the structured
nature of roads,
to speed up the planning process
while avoiding obstacles.
By focusing on only those
smooth path options
that swerve slightly to
the left or right
of the goal path,
the conformal lattice
planner produces
plans that closely
resemble human driving.
When planning paths
over roadways,
a car should typically never
consider leaving the road,
unless there is
an emergency stop scenario.
Because of this, the conformal
lattice planner chooses
a central goal state as well
as a sequence of
alternate goal states,
that are formed by laterally
offsetting from
the central goal state,
with respect to the
heading of the road.
This is illustrated here in
this example of
a conformal lattice.
Where the end point
of each path is
laterally offset from
the central path,
which corresponds to
a goal point on the road.
This goal point is
highlighted in gold.
We can do this
because in general,
the car is supposed to make
forward progress
along the ego lane.
We don't care as much
about a path that
wouldn't result in
forward progress,
so we can greatly
reduce our search space
keeping the conformal lattice
planner computationally
tractable.
So how do we select
this goal state?
In general, there's
a key trade off when
selecting your goal state
for path planning.
If you choose
a goal state that is
close to the current
ego vehicle position,
you reduce the computational time
required to find a path
to the goal point.
However, you also
reduce the ability of
the planner to avoid obstacles
farther down a path,
in a smooth and
comfortable manner.
This can be problematic at
higher speeds where the car
will cover more distance in
between planning cycles.
Usually, the goal
horizon that we use
in our plan is
dynamically calculated,
based upon factors such as
the car speed and
the weather conditions.
For simplicity in
this module however,
we will use a fixed goal horizon.
We will take the goal point as
the point along
the center line of the lane,
that is a distance ahead of
us equal to our goal horizon.
This is illustrated here
along this path with
the gold point corresponding
to the selected goal location.
The blue points correspond to
the laterally offset goal points,
which will be used as
alternate endpoint
constraints for
each spiral in the lattice.
The black portion of
the lane central line has
arc length equal to
our selected goal horizon.
At each planning step,
we will recompute our goal point
based on this same horizon,
and we will make forward
progress along the lane.
Once these goals states
have been found,
we can then calculate
the spirals required to
reach each one of them.
At this point, we
don't worry about
whether the paths
are collision free,
we just want kinematically
feasible paths
to each of our goal states.
We can therefore use
the optimization formulation
we developed in lesson two,
to solve for a cubic spiral,
from our current location,
to each end location.
If any of the spirals
are kinematically
infeasible or are unable
to reach the required goal state,
we discard those spiral
so that they are
no longer considered
as potential paths.
Note that once an optimization
problem is solved,
we only have the resulting
parameter vector p. We then have
to undo the transformation
we initially
performed on the spiral
coefficients,
in order to retrieve
them from the p vector.
Once we have
our spiral coefficients,
we can then sample
the points along the spiral
to get a discrete representation
of the entire path.
Since we don't have
a closed form solution of
the position along the spiral,
we again need to perform
numerical integration.
However, since this time,
we are evaluating
the integral and numerous points
along the entire spiral,
a more efficient method is
needed to solve these integrals.
Here we apply a linear
interpolation approach.
The trapezoid rule.
The trapezoid rule is
significantly more
efficient than Simpson's rule
in this context,
because each subsequent point
along the curve,
can be constructed
from the previous one.
So we only have to
do one sweep through
the spiral to get all
of the required points.
Simpson's rule, on
the other hand,
would require us to solve
an integral approximation
for each point,
which is much less efficient.
In Python, we can
do this by using
the cumulative
trapezoid function.
Once the trapezoid
rule is applied,
we now have a discrete
representation
of each spiral for
each goal point.
It will be important that we
keep track of the curvature
of each point along with
the position and heading,
as this will help us with
our velocity profile
planning later on.
We have closed form solutions
for the curvature and heading,
so no numerical
integration is required.
After using the trapezoid rule,
we now have our generated set of
paths for each goal
states shown here.
Now that we have
a full set of paths,
we need to see which ones
are collision free.
To do this, we can use either of
the collision checking techniques
we discussed in module four.
Most generally, we can use
a binary occupancy grid that
contains one if a cell is
occupied, and zero otherwise.
We can then take
our cars footprint in
terms of the cells of
the occupancy grid,
and sweep the footprint
out across each point in
the spiral to generate
the swath of the path.
If the occupancy grid
at a cell in
the swath contains an obstacle,
the path in question will
collide with the obstacle,
and should be marked
as having a collision.
If this never occurs for any of
the cells in the swath
along the entire path,
the path is considered
collision-free.
Alternatively, we can
use circle checks if
both the ego vehicle and
each obstacle in the ego lane,
can be enclosed in
a circle approximation.
Then we place the circles for
the ego vehicle at
each point along the path,
and check for collisions with
each obstacle that falls
within the ego lane.
To illustrate the results
of collision checking,
we've added a parked vehicle to
our path that we now
need to plan around.
After sweeping the swath
out across each spiral,
similar to how we did
it in module four,
we have marked the
collision-free paths as green,
and the paths that collide
with the obstacles as red.
At this point, we have a set of
feasible and
collision-free paths,
but we need a method of selecting
the best one to follow.
The selection process is
largely a design choice.
As there may be
multiple criteria that
are useful for a given
planning application.
For example, we
may want to choose
paths that are as far from
obstacles as possible.
So we may add a penalty term for
paths that come too
close to obstacles,
in the occupancy grid.
We may also want to
penalize terms that
deviate too far from
the nearest lane center line,
as we do not want
to split lanes for
too long while performing
a lane change.
For now, we're going to use
a simple metric where we
bias the planner to select
paths from the path set,
that are as close to the
center goal state as possible.
The actual penalty
function doesn't
matter as long as the
penalty increases,
the farther you get
from the central goal.
By biasing toward
the center path,
we are encouraging our planner
to follow the reference path,
and only letting it deviate from
the reference when the reference
path is infeasible,
or if it collides
with an obstacle.
For simplicity, we can take
this function to be
the displacement from
the center goal state to
the goal state of
the path we are checking.
We can then iterate over
every path in the path set,
find the one that minimizes
this penalty and select it to
publish as our final path.
In our example, the selected
path is highlighted in blue.
If we now repeat this process for
multiple time steps as
the car moves along the path,
our planner is able
to plan a path
that converges to the goal state,
while also avoiding
the obstacles.
Similar to the reactive planner
we developed in module four,
this planner proceeds in
a receding horizon fashion
towards the goal at
the end of the lane.
We now have all the pieces
necessary to form smooth,
collision-free paths
through the environment,
that favor forward
progress in the lane.
To summarize in this video,
we first define
the conformal state
lattice planner approach,
which selects points
laterally offset
from some goal point ahead
of us along the road.
We then planned paths to each of
these points using
our spiral optimization methods,
developed in lesson two.
Next, we discussed how to
prune this set of paths to
be collision-free,and how to
select the best remaining path.
Finally, we integrated
a receding horizon approach
to complete our path planner.
Now that you've
had an overview of
the entire path
planning algorithm,
we hope that you're
able to see how many of
the lessons in this course
have culminated,
in a method that efficiently
solves the path planning problem.
In our next video,
we'll discuss how to take
an input path as calculated
by our path planner,
and generate a velocity profile
for the car to follow,
as it moves along the path.
We'll then have a complete set of
reference signals to pass to
our controller to execute,
completing all three stages of
the hierarchical motion
planning process.